https://github.com/chase2981/angular-styleguide/tree/master/a2


Constitution of DevOverseer@{CompanyName}
Student Organization Name: DevOverseer@{CompanyName}
Date Prepared: April 21, 2021
Date Ratified: 


Article I - Name

The name of this organization shall be DevOverseer@{CompanyName}.


Article II - Purpose

The purpose of this organization shall be:

• To provide an official way of defining cross-team style guidelines applicable to {CompanyName}'s entire codebase



Article III - Membership


Membership is open to any student, faculty, or staff who are interested in technology and/or
Google. Only currently registered students, faculty, and staff may be active members in a
registered student organization. Only active members may vote or hold office.



Arcticle IV - Executive Procedures
Section 4 – Schedule of Meetings
The time and frequency of Senate meetings for that semester shall be determined at the first meeting of
the Executive Cabinet, which shall be called by the President.


Article IV - Officers & Elections


DevOverseer@{CompanyName} Executive Board shall consist of the President and the Vice President.


The Executive Board may create committees and positions within committees if deemed necessary. All committees will be appointed by the President. A member may be appointed to more than one committee. Each Committee Chair will call meetings of their own committee as necessary, and will report to the rest of the Executive Board.


General Responsibilities


• Promote and raise awareness about code best practices


• Attend and assist with large-scale and small scale activities and educational events



The President

• Act as the primary spokesman, the chief executive, and the primary signatory of
DevOverseer@{CompanyName}


• Provide the overall vision and sense of direction for the organization


• Call, organize, and preside over general club meetings, club elections, and Executive
Board meetings


• Supervise/oversee the work of the other officers and ensure that they function
together as an effective team


• Act as a parliamentarian in the event of constitutional questions, in accordance with
Robert’s Rules of Order


The Vice President
• Serve as the primary ASUC liaison for DevOverseer@{CompanyName}


• Collaborate with the President to attain approval for club events and meetings


• Take notes during meetings and write the monthly newsletter


The application process shall begin in early September. The President shall appoint all other
members of the executive board.

The term of office shall be from August 1 to July 31 of next year. 

Elected officers and committee
chairs or assistants may be impeached and removed from office for failure to perform their
constitutional duties such as failure to comply with the regulations of {CompanyName}.


Article V - Meetings

General meetings are to be held at a reasonable time and location once per year. Officer
meetings are to be held at reasonable times and locations twice per year. The President is
responsible for calling meetings. 


Article V - Legislative Procedures

Section 1 – Responsibilities and Duties of the Senate
A. Each representative in the Senate shall have a working knowledge of parliamentary procedure
and should be responsible for following the recognized guidelines. The current guidelines shall
be Robert’s Rules of Order Newly Revised (the latest edition).

Section 2 – Communication
A. Each Senator’s prime obligation shall be to represent the interests of his/her constituency.
B. Any member of the Senate may submit legislation in the form of bills 
concerning student interests.
Section 3 – Quorum
Quorum for consideration of business shall consist of two-thirds majority of the total voting members of
the Senate.

Section 5 – Senatorial Action on Bills
A. Definition – The term “bill” shall be any act of the Senate that shall affect a change throughout
the University.
B. Bills shall be typewritten and delivered to the Secretary with the following format.
1. Title must be written single spaced
2. A brief description of the bill
3. The words “BE IT ENACTED BY THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION OF
TENNESSEE TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY” followed by the section statements of the
bill.


4. The execution of the bill shall be detailed in individual sections with the final section
containing the words, “This bill shall take effect immediately upon passage of the
Student Government Associations, the welfare of the developers requiring it.”
5. The date at which a bill shall take place is subject to the nature of the bill and may be
changed in the final section statement.
6. The words “respectfully submitted by” and a list of authors and sponsors.
C. A bill is considered passed when a simple majority of Senators present vote for passage.
D. Amendments to a bill may be made by a simple majority vote of members present and/or with
the consent of the bill’s main sponsor.

At least fifty percent quorum is needed to establish laws. Two-thirds vote is required to amend them.


Article VI - Constitutional Amendments


Any voting member can propose an amendment. Amendments to the Constitution require a
fifty per cent quorum and a 2/3 vote to be passed. 

Amendments must be in the following format:



DevOverseer@{CompanyName} can establish by-laws. At least fifty per cent quorum is needed to establish by
laws. Two-thirds vote is required to amend them. Any changes in either the Constitution or the
by-laws will be reported to all members by the President.



ARTICLE XIII: STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE
The DevOverseer@{CompanyName} shall comply with all {CompanyName}, local, state, and federal
regulations.


Article XIV: Ratification




Article VII - Dissolution


Dissolution will be declared if 90% of the group members vote to dissolve. 