https://github.com/chase2981/angular-styleguide/tree/master/a2


Constitution of Google@Berkeley
Student Organization Name: Google@Berkeley
Date Prepared: August 30, 2015
Date Amended:
Date Approved (LEAD Center staff):
Approved by (LEAD Center staff):


Article I - Name

The name of this student organization shall be Google@Berkeley.


Article II - Purpose

The purpose of this organization shall be:

• To unite students who are passionate about technology, leadership, and innovation at {CompanyName}


• To promote and organizes activities to educate the students and staff about technology,
innovation and Google products


• To provide personal and professional development for its members


Article III - Membership


Membership is open to any student, faculty, or staff who are interested in technology and/or
Google. Only currently registered students, faculty, and staff may be active members in a
registered student organization. Only active members may vote or hold office.



Arcticle IV - Executive Procedures
Section 4 – Schedule of Meetings
The time and frequency of Senate meetings for that semester shall be determined at the first meeting of
the Executive Cabinet, which shall be called by the President.


Article IV - Officers & Elections


Google@Berkeley Executive Board shall consist of the President and the Vice President.


The Executive(s) may create committees and positions within committees if deemed necessary. All committees will be appointed by the President. A member may be appointed to more than one committee. Each Chair will call meetings of their own committee meetings as necessary, and report to the rest of the Executive Board.


General Responsibilities


• Promote and raise awareness about code best practices


• Attend and assist with large-scale and small scale activities and educational events


• Assist other board members during times of need


The President

• Act as the primary spokesman, the chief executive, and the primary signatory of
Google@Berkeley


• Provide the overall vision and sense of direction for the organization


• Call, organize, and preside over general club meetings, club elections, and Executive
Board meetings


• Supervise/oversee the work of the other officers and ensures that they function
together as an effective team


• Act as a parliamentarian in the event of constitutional questions, in accordance with
Robert’s Rules of Order


The Vice President of External Affairs
• Serve as the primary ASUC liaison for Google@Berkeley


• Collaborate with the President to attain approval for club events and meetings


• Promote the Google@Berkeley organization to campus, including overseeing tabling on
Sproul and chalking when necessary


• Assist in marketing the large-scale events, activities, and educational workshops


• Collaborate with the Vice President of Internal Affairs to designate a budget for events
The Vice President of Internal Affairs


• Coordinate the work between the different committees to ensure the overall
organization functions smoothly


• Take notes during meetings and write the monthly newsletter


• Maintain the organization’s online presence via Facebook, Google Plus, and other
Channels


• Collaborate with the Vice President of External Affairs to designate a budget for events
The Hack-a-thon/Large-Scale Event Chair


• Host a large-scale event each semester


• Appoint a committee of individuals that will assist in planning said large-scale event


• Look for supplemental funding and donations for said large-scale event


• Work with the Activities Chair to ensure that Google@Berkeley will not have conflicting
Events


The application process shall begin in early September. The President shall appoint all other
members of the executive board.

The term of office shall be from August 1 to July 31 of next year. Elected officers and committee
chairs or assistants may be impeached and removed from office for failure to perform their
constitutional duties such as failure to comply with the regulations of {CompanyName}.


Article V - Meetings

General meetings are to be held at a reasonable time and location once per year. Officer
meetings are to be held at reasonable times and locations twice per year. The President is
responsible for calling meetings. 


Article V - Legislative Procedures

Section 1 – Responsibilities and Duties of the Senate
A. Each representative in the Senate shall have a working knowledge of parliamentary procedure
and should be responsible for following the recognized guidelines. The current guidelines shall
be the Rules of Order of the Student Government Association Senate, supplemented by Robert’s
Rules of Order Newly Revised (the latest edition).

Section 2 – Communication
A. Each Senator’s prime obligation shall be to represent the interests of his/her constituency.
B. Any member of the Senate may submit legislation in the form of bills and/or resolutions
concerning student interests.
Section 3 – Quorum
Quorum for consideration of business shall consist of two-thirds majority of the total voting members of
the Senate.

Section 5 – Senatorial Action on Bills
A. Definition – The term “bill” shall be any act of the Senate that shall affect a change throughout
the University.
B. Bills shall be typewritten and delivered to the Secretary with the following format.
1. Title must be written single spaced
2. A brief description of the bill and/or its purpose shall be included in the whereas
statements
3. The words “BE IT ENACTED BY THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION OF
TENNESSEE TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY” followed by the section statements of the
bill.

8

4. The execution of the bill shall be detailed in individual sections with the final section
containing the words, “This bill shall take effect immediately upon passage of the
Student Government Associations, the welfare of the students requiring it.”
5. The date at which a bill shall take place is subject to the nature of the bill and may be
changed in the final section statement.
6. The words “respectfully submitted by” and a list of authors and sponsors.
C. A bill is considered passed when a simple majority of Senators present vote for passage.
D. Amendments to a bill may be made by a simple majority vote of members present and/or with
the consent of the bill’s main sponsor.

At least fifty percent quorum is needed to establish laws. Two-thirds vote is required to amend them.


Article VI - Constitutional Amendments


Any voting member can propose an amendment. Amendments to the Constitution require a
fifty per cent quorum and a 2/3 vote to be passed. Nevertheless, the president reserves the
ability to veto any approved amendments.
Google@Berkeley can establish by-laws. At least fifty per cent quorum is needed to establish by
laws. Two-thirds vote is required to amend them. Any changes in either the Constitution or the
by-laws will be reported to {CompanyName} CTO by the President.


ARTICLE VII: STANDING COMMITTEES
Each SGA Standing Committee shall have the following officers –
A. Chairperson - Appointed by the SGA Vice President subject to ratification by the Senate. The
Chairperson shall be responsible for conducting the meetings of the committee, and for
reporting the actions of the committee to the SGA Senate.
B. Vice Chairperson - Elected by the committee. The Vice Chairperson shall conduct the meetings
of the committee in case of absence or inability of the Chairperson. The Vice Chairperson shall
automatically advance into Chairmanship in the event of a vacancy of this position.
C. Secretary - Elected by the committee. The Secretary shall be responsible for recording the
actions of the committee and for reporting these actions to the SGA Secretary.



Article VII - Dissolution


Dissolution will be decided if 90% of the group members vote to dissolve. Dissolution will also
take place in case of low membership or merging with another more powerful organization.