STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION CONSTITUTION

PREAMBLE
We, the members of the Student Government Association of Tennessee Tech University come together in
order to promote and perpetuate the best interests of the Tennessee Tech and the students represented
therein, to ensure cooperation among said students and between students and Tennessee Tech
administration, faculty, and the community to the end that the condition of the students may be
improved. We hereby do ordain and establish this Constitution for the Student Government Association
to serve as the guiding document for our organization and its members.

ARTICLE I: DEFINITION
Section 1 – Name
The name of this organization shall be the Student Government Association of Tennessee Tech
University hereafter referred to in the constitution as “SGA.”
Section 2 – Membership
The membership of the SGA shall consist of undergraduate and graduate students of Tennessee Tech
University. Membership shall not be denied on the basis of age, race, sex, sexual orientation or gender
identity, disability veteran status, religion, national origin, or any other bases protected by federal and
state law.

ARTICLE II: PURPOSE AND POWERS
Section 1 – Purpose
The purpose of the SGA is to fulfill the following responsibilities:
A. Uphold the constitutional liberties and rights and to promote the general welfare of all
segments of the University community
B. Promote student participation in the affairs of Tennessee Tech
C. Serve as a channel for the expression of student opinion to Tennessee Tech administration
D. Support student activities and student life on campus
E. Encourage the development of student responsibility, character, leadership, scholarship, and
citizenship
Section 2 – Scope of Power
The SGA shall be given the power to do the following:
A. Act in all matters addressed within this constitution

4
B. Implement and revise bylaws and standing rules
C. Enact legislation to address all matters related to Tennessee Tech with the purpose of improving
the student experience
D. All other powers and responsibilities granted to the SGA by Tennessee Tech






ARTICLE III: ORGANIZATION
The membership of the SGA shall consist of an executive branch, a legislative branch, and a judicial
branch.
ARTICLE IV: EXECUTIVE BRANCH
The executive branch of SGA shall consist of an Executive Council and an Executive Cabinet.
Section 1 – Executive Council
The Executive Council shall consist of the following elected officers: SGA President, SGA Vice President,
SGA Secretary, and SGA Treasurer.
A. The President shall be the acknowledged leader of the student body in all matters of student
interest.
B. The President shall fulfill the following duties:
1. Preside at all meetings of the executive branch
2. Appoint all officers of the executive branch, including members of the Executive
Cabinet, administrative assistants, and other personnel
3. Supervise all SGA finances, records, programs, initiatives, and other matters of
relevance
4. Approve or reject, in their entirety, bills passed by the Senate within fourteen (14) days
of their reception
5. Serve as a voting member of the Administrative Council, Athletic Committee, Chapter
606 Student Monies Allocation Committee, and other committees as appointed by the
Office of the President
6. Appoint members to the Election Commission
7. Present Executive Orders to the Senate for approval
8. Attend all meetings of the Senate
C. The Vice President shall fulfill the following duties:
1. Discharge the duties of the President in the event that the President is not able to
perform his/her duties

5

2. Serve as President for the remainder of the term in the event of a vacancy in the office
of President
3. Act as Speaker of the Senate
4. Serve as a non-voting, ex-officio member of the Senate and all Senate Committees
5. Cast votes in the proceedings of the Senate in the case of a tie vote
6. Recommend the chairperson for Standing SGA Committees
7. Appoint special and ad-hoc committees of the Senate
8. Attend all meetings of the Senate
D. The Secretary shall fulfill the following duties:
1. Maintain all SGA records, documents, and correspondence
2. Keep records indicating the status of all past and present Senate legislation
3. Record the proceedings of all Senate and Executive Council and Cabinet meetings,
including committee meetings
4. Serve as a non-voting, ex-officio member of the Senate
5. Forward all bills and resolutions passed by the Senate to the President within three (3)
business days
6. Attend all meetings of the Senate





Section 3 – Executive Branch Qualifications
A. The President shall:
1. Be of at least junior standing at the start of the fall semester after their election
2. Be a full-time or Co-op student of the University
3. Have served in SGA for at least one (1) year prior to their election
4. Maintain a GPA of 2.75 or greater during their term of office
B. The Vice President shall:
1. Be of at least junior standing at the start of the fall semester following their election.
2. Be a full-time or Co-op student of the University
3. Have served in SGA for at least one (1) year prior to their election
4. Maintain a GPA of 2.75 or greater during their term of office
C. The Secretary shall:
1. Be of at least sophomore standing at the start of the fall semester after their election
2. Be a full-time or Co-op student of the University
3. Maintain a GPA of 2.75 or greater during their term of office





ARTICLE V: LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
Section 1 – Name
The Legislative Branch shall be referred to hereafter as the “Senate.”

Section 2 – Membership
The membership of the Senate shall consist of representatives from each of the following:
A. College of Agriculture and Human Ecology
B. College of Arts and Sciences

7

C. College of Business
D. College of Education
E. College of Engineering
F. College of Fine Arts
G. College of Interdisciplinary Studies
H. Whitson-Hester School of Nursing
I. College of Graduate Studies
J. Residence Hall Association
K. Freshman students
L. Transfer students
M. Accessibility and Inclusion
N. Reserve Officers Training Corp (R.O.T.C.)
O. International Students
P. Multicultural Affairs

Section 3 – Composition
A. College/School Representation:
1. Apportionment of representatives in the Senate shall be one (1) Senator for every three
hundred fifty (350) students in each college or school or a major fraction thereof, with a
minimum of one (2) Senator per college/school.
2. Apportionment shall be based on the official enrollment numbers from the previous fall
semester.

B. Residence Hall Association membership shall consist of two (2) members of the Residence Hall
Association appointed by the RHA President at the end of the Spring semester to serve during
the upcoming academic year.
C. Freshman Student representation shall consist of one (1) member of the Freshman class for
every three hundred and fifty (350) entering freshmen. The Freshman Senators will be
interviewed and chosen by the SGA President and voted on by the Senate at the beginning of
each fall semester to serve for the academic year.
D. Transfer Student representation shall consist of one (1) transfer student member for every three
hundred and fifty (350) transfer students as calculated in the spring semester yearly. Transfer
Senators will be interviewed and chosen by the SGA President at the beginning of the fall
semester to serve for the academic year.
E. Accessibility and Inclusion representation shall consist of one (1) student appointed by the
Accessible Education Center at the end of the Spring semester to serve during the upcoming
academic year.

8

F. Reserve Officers Training Corp (R.O.T.C.) representation shall consist of one (1) student
appointed by the highest-grade U.S. Army Officer in the Tennessee Tech University. R.O.T.C.
department at the end of the Spring semester to serve during the upcoming academic year.
G. International student representation shall consist of one (1) student appointed by the Office of
International Education at the end of the spring semester to serve during the upcoming
academic year.
H. Multicultural Affairs student representation shall consist of two (2) students appointed by the
Office of Multicultural Affairs at the end of the spring semester to serve during the upcoming
academic year.

Section 4 – Apportionment of Representatives
The Executive Council shall be responsible for reapportionment of the Senators during the spring
semester if vacancies occur. This shall be completed no later than the third (3rd) Senate meeting of the
spring semester.


Section 5 – Qualifications
A. Senators shall be full-time students during their term of office.
B. Senators shall maintain a 2.75 cumulative grade point average throughout his/her term of
office.
C. Senators from colleges and schools shall maintain a major within the college or school from
which they were elected.
D. Senators from the Residence Hall Association shall maintain the offices in those bodies which
qualified them to be Senators.
E. The Freshmen Senators shall not be more than second semester freshmen during the fall
semester of the year that they are appointed.
F. Failure of any senator to maintain these minimum requirements shall necessitate resignation

Section 6 – Duties and Powers
The Senate shall have the option of exercising the following duties and powers:
A. Approve and maintain a budget
B. Enact legislation
C. Ratify by two-thirds majority vote or to reject all Executive Cabinet officers, SGA Supreme Court
members, and appointed senators
D. Initiate impeachment proceedings







Section 7 – Committees
A. The Executive Council shall determine the SGA Standing Committees that are necessary to best
serve students.

9

B. The Executive Council shall determine the chairperson for each standing committee.
C. Each member of the Senate shall serve on one (1) SGA standing committee or Tennessee Tech
Committee. Limitations shall be placed on the number of ad-hoc or special committees which a
Senator may serve on.


Section 8 – Legislation
A. The Executive Council and Executive Cabinet shall review and discuss all bills that have been
brought to the table before the next meeting of the Senate.
B. Bills written by Senators shall be delivered to the SGA Secretary. Time and date for bill
submissions shall be determined by the SGA Secretary.
C. Bills shall be submitted in the correct SGA bill format.
D. Senate will consider and act on all decisions made by standing, special, and ad-hoc committees
of the SGA Senate.
E. Senate shall elect, from its membership, a Speaker Pro-Tempore, who shall preside over the
Senate in the absence of the Vice President. The Speaker Pro-Tempore shall also assume the
Presidency in the event that the Vice President is unable to fill a vacancy in the Presidency.
F. Senate has the authority to override a presidential veto by a two-thirds vote of the members.



ARTICLE VII: ELECTIONS
Section 1 – Frequency
A. Executive and legislative branch elections shall be held in each spring semester following spring
break.
B. The Elections Commission shall be responsible for setting the date for each election.
C. Run-off elections will be held within seven (7) days after a regularly scheduled election.
D. If deemed necessary by a two-thirds vote of the Elections Commission, elections may be held at
any time during a semester.






Section 2 – Voting
All students enrolled in at least one (1) credit hour shall have the right to vote for candidates in any
election provided that members of the legislative branch (senators) shall be elected by students in their
respective colleges/schools.
Section 3 – Executive Council Elections
A. All executive officers shall be elected by a majority vote.
B. If no candidate receives a majority of the votes on the first ballot, a run-off election will be held
between the two candidates receiving the largest portion of the votes. The candidate that
receives the most votes in the run-off shall be elected.
Section 4 – Senator Elections
All senators shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast.
Section 5 – Candidate Requirements
A. Each candidate shall be required to sign a release of academic records (grade point average and
hours earned) in order for the SGA Advisor or designee to verify his/her eligibility to run for
office. Candidate GPA or hours earned will not be shared by the SGA Advisor or designee.





ARTICLE VIII: TERMS OF OFFICE
Section 1 – Executive Officers and Senators
The term of office for Executive Officers and Senators shall be one (1) year and shall begin when they
are sworn in within the final two weeks of each spring semester.
Section 2 – Freshman Senators & Justices
The term of office for Freshman Senators and Justices shall begin when they are presented at the first
Senate meeting of the fall semester and shall end at the end the following spring semester.

ARTICLE IX: OATH OF OFFICE
The Oath of Office shall be administered to all elected officials by the SGA Supreme Court Chief Justice,
or his/her Associate Chief Justice, as follows:
I, ____________, having been duly elected/appointed as __________ (insert office or title here) of the
Student Government Association of Tennessee Tech University, and ever mindful of the public trust
invested in me, do hereby swear to uphold the Constitutional rights, the SGA Constitution and By-Laws,
and the liberties of the students.



ARTICLE XI: MEETINGS
Section 1 – Frequency
The Senate will meet weekly, absent good cause. A schedule of meetings for a semester shall be created
prior to the beginning of the semester and published on the website and social media.
Section 2 – Special Meetings
The SGA President may call special meetings at any time for important matters with forty-eight hours’
notice given to all members.
Section 3 – Quorum

15

Quorum for consideration of business shall consist of two-thirds majority of the total voting members of
the Senate. If a quorum is not present, voting shall be postponed until the next meeting.




ARTICLE XIII: STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE
The SGA shall comply with all Tennessee Tech, Tennessee Tech Board, and local, state, and federal
regulations.

16
ARTICLE XIV: PARLIAMENTARY AUTHORITY
The latest edition of Robert’s Rules of Order shall govern parliamentary procedure to be used in
meetings when business matters are in order.

ARTICLE XV: AMENDMENTS
This constitution may be amended after a vote of two-thirds approval of voting membership of the SGA
Senate, approval from the President, approval of the SGA Advisor with review and affirmative action by
the Student Affairs Committee and Administrative Council.






-------------------------------------------



Article 1. Executive Procedures

Section 4 – Schedule of Meetings
The time and frequency of Senate meetings for that semester shall be determined at the first meeting of
the Executive Cabinet, which shall be called by the President.


Section 6 – Order of Business
The order of business shall be determined by the person presiding over the meeting of the Executive
Cabinet.
Section 7 – Parliamentary Procedure
Parliamentary procedure will be followed only to the extent of conducting an efficient meeting following
the procedures established in Robert’s Rules of Order.


Section 9 – Communication from Cabinet to Senate
The Executive Cabinet may propose to the Senate possible topics of interest or legislation.




Section 14 – Executive Orders
A. Definition – The term “Executive Order” shall be any act of the Executive President that shall
affect a change throughout the University.
B. The Executive President shall notify all officers of the Executive Branch no less than forty-eight
(48) hours in advance of a submission of an Executive Order to the Senate.
C. Executive Orders shall be typewritten and delivered to the Secretary with the following format.
1. Title must be written single spaced,

6

2. A brief description of the Executive Order and/or its purpose shall be included
in the whereas statements,
3. The words “BE IT ENACTED BY THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION OF
TENNESSEE TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY” followed by the section statements of the
Executive Order.
4. The execution of the Executive Order shall be detailed in individual sections with the
final section containing the words, “This Executive Order shall take effect immediately
upon passage of the Student Government Association, the welfare of the students
requiring it.”
5. The precise date at which an Executive Order shall take place is subject to the nature
of the Executive Order and may be changed in the final section statement.
6. The words “respectfully submitted by the Executive President of SGA” optionally
followed by a list of Executive Brach co-sponsors.

D. An Executive Order is considered passed when a two-thirds majority of total voting members of
the Senate vote for passage.
E. Amendments to an Executive Order may be made by a simple majority vote of members present
and/or with the consent of the Executive President.
F. Executive Orders may not reduce the powers or rights of the SGA Senate nor grant any powers
or rights currently held by a Senator or the SGA Senate as a whole to the Executive Branch.




ARTICLE II: LEGISLATIVE PROCEDURES
Section 1 – Responsibilities and Duties of the Senate
A. Each representative in the Senate shall have a working knowledge of parliamentary procedure
and should be responsible for following the recognized guidelines. The current guidelines shall
be the Rules of Order of the Student Government Association Senate, supplemented by Robert’s
Rules of Order Newly Revised (the latest edition).
B. The order of business shall be as follows –
1. Pledge of Allegiance
2. Moment of Silence
3. Roll call
4. Reading and approval of minutes
5. Reading and approval of agenda
6. Standing committee reports
7. University committee reports
8. Old business
9. New business

7
10. Executive Cabinet Reports
11. Executive Council Reports
12. Announcements
13. Adjournment

Section 2 – Communication
A. Each Senator’s prime obligation shall be to represent the interests of his/her constituency.
B. Any member of the Senate may submit legislation in the form of bills and/or resolutions
concerning student interests.

Section 3 – Quorum
Quorum for consideration of business shall consist of two-thirds majority of the total voting members of
the Senate.

Section 4 – Attendance
A. Attendance at all Senate functions is required of all members. Absences will be limited to two
(2) unexcused absences from any Senate meeting per semester, one (1) unexcused absence
from any other Senate functions per semester including University committees, and two (2)
absences from weekly office hours. These absences will not be cumulative over the academic
year.
B. The SGA Secretary will notify the SGA President and Senator when a student misses his/her third
meeting. If the student does not submit a formal resignation at that time, impeachment
proceedings shall be initiated.
C. No member shall be allowed more than two (2) unexcused absences per semester. The SGA
President shall have the implied power to request immediate resignation of said Senator. This
position shall be filled within two (2) weeks by the SGA President or a committee appointed by
the SGA President.


Section 5 – Senatorial Action on Bills
A. Definition – The term “bill” shall be any act of the Senate that shall affect a change throughout
the University.
B. Bills shall be typewritten and delivered to the Secretary with the following format.
1. Title must be written single spaced
2. A brief description of the bill and/or its purpose shall be included in the whereas
statements
3. The words “BE IT ENACTED BY THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION OF
TENNESSEE TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY” followed by the section statements of the
bill.

8

4. The execution of the bill shall be detailed in individual sections with the final section
containing the words, “This bill shall take effect immediately upon passage of the
Student Government Associations, the welfare of the students requiring it.”
5. The date at which a bill shall take place is subject to the nature of the bill and may be
changed in the final section statement.
6. The words “respectfully submitted by” and a list of authors and sponsors.
C. A bill is considered passed when a simple majority of Senators present vote for passage.
D. Amendments to a bill may be made by a simple majority vote of members present and/or with
the consent of the bill’s main sponsor.

Section 6 – Senate Action on Resolutions
A. The resolution is defined as in the latest edition Robert’s Rules of Order: Newly Revised.
B. Resolutions may be adopted by a simple majority vote of the members present.
C. Passed resolutions shall be presented to the Secretary of Administrative Affairs for referral to
the appropriate University office or committee if necessary.
Section 7 – Parliamentarian
A. The Chief of Staff shall act as parliamentarian for all Senate.
B. Parliamentarian shall have the ultimate power in settling all disputes in the Senate arising out of
parliamentary procedure.

Section 8 – Sergeant-At-Arms
A. The Chief of Staff shall act as Sergeant-At-Arms for all Senate meetings.
B. At the discretion of the Speaker of the Senate, the Sergeant-At-Arms shall have the power to
remove anyone causing a disturbance from the Senate chambers.

Section 9 – Speaker Pro-Tempore
A. Shall be a Speaker Pro-Tempore elected by the Senate before the third (3rd) meeting of the new
Senate in the fall. The term of office shall be one academic year.
B. The Speaker Pro-Tempore shall preside over any official meeting of the Senate in the absence of
the Speaker of the Senate.
C. The Speaker Pro-Tempore shall follow the Vice President in the line of succession to the
Presidency of the SGA.


Section 11 – Non-Members
A non-member of the Senate may address the Senate and may participate in a debate only by the
approval of the members present.


ARTICLE VI: HOMECOMING KING AND QUEEN ELECTIONS
A. All candidates for Homecoming King and Homecoming Queen shall be students of at least junior
status, enrolled full time with a minimum overall quality point average of 2.50
B. All candidates for Homecoming King and Homecoming Queen must be sponsored by an
organization recognized by the University
C. An organization may sponsor only one (1) candidate for Homecoming King and one (1)
candidate for Homecoming Queen
D. Homecoming election rules shall be determined by the Election Commission



ARTICLE VII: STANDING COMMITTEES
Each SGA Standing Committee shall have the following officers –
A. Chairperson - Appointed by the SGA Vice President subject to ratification by the Senate. The
Chairperson shall be responsible for conducting the meetings of the committee, and for
reporting the actions of the committee to the SGA Senate.
B. Vice Chairperson - Elected by the committee. The Vice Chairperson shall conduct the meetings
of the committee in case of absence or inability of the Chairperson. The Vice Chairperson shall
automatically advance into Chairmanship in the event of a vacancy of this position.
C. Secretary - Elected by the committee. The Secretary shall be responsible for recording the
actions of the committee and for reporting these actions to the SGA Secretary.
ARTICLE VIII: RATIFICATION AND AMENDMENTS
The By-Laws of this Constitution may be ratified or amended by a two-thirds vote of the Senate
members present, and by approval of the SGA President and Dean of Students.







